---
setup: |
  import Layout from '../../layouts/BlogPost.astro';
title: Succeeding in my first developer role
description: How I feel I 'succeeded' in my first dev job, and the biggest skill that got me there
date: 18-07-2022
url: /blog/posts/1
author: "Tom Shaw"
---

Hello, so! During my 9 months as a placement student at HMRC as a Frontend Developer, I learned a lot, got to put a lot of stuff to practical use, and feel like I've come out the back of it a stronger developer overall.<br />


I had a lot of thoughts throughout the 9 months on different things I was working on and concepts that were either new to me or had a new light shined on them; through that I decided to jot some ideas down and now I want to waffle about them in this blog where no one can stop me :)  


Starting here, I want to go over the biggest aspect of my first developer job experience, and how I felt I *succeeded*:  


### Learning to Learn
One of the most important skills as a developer and something that we might not teach enough - the ability to teach yourself something new, teach yourself well, and sometimes teach yourself fast. The onboarding process at HMRC for me was much less admin-y than I expected; it consisted of a couple of phone calls to check everything was okay, meaning that pretty much from day 2 I was learning the stack, I was learning about the repos, the organisation, and who to go to for what. While this was a huge bundle of knowledge all at once (and HMRC is infamous for it's love of abbreviations which makes things even harder) I found that documenting my first week in scrawled notes really helped me. I noted down conversations, things I think might come up again, teams, names, job titles, and this really got me on top of the business side of working as a developer. 


Next comes the programming side. I worked on the design system team, particular looking after [the design system web page](https://design.tax.service.gov.uk/) but also maintaining the current design patterns and components, plus occasionally building a new one from scratch. The stack was as simple as HTML, CSS and JS but included some frameworks like Nunjucks for templating, and SCSS for better styling. I had of course used the holy trinity before, but all of the extra packages and frameworks were things I hadn't used, so my biggest tip for getting the hang of these is NOT trying to learn them from the ground up! I could sit and read through all of the different functions tech that Nunjucks provides in their documentation, or I could take a look at some pull requests my colleagues had made on the design system repo and see which parts of Nunjucks they were actually using, and where it was getting used. This got me to a level where I could write in frameworks very quickly, and I was building a new component for the design system within the first month of my job. **Look at the pull requests, people!**


In summary, I feel I owe a lot to my mentor at HMRC for such an easy introduction in to the dev job world, but I also feel I allowed myself to succeed from the get go by being ready for challenges, and being equipped to learn from day 1 all the way to my last day. I've actually been kept on part time at HMRC to work throughout university, so they must have liked me at least a bit. If you've read down to here, thank you very much, and keep a look out for more posts as I still have more manic ramblings to make.


Tom